*bufsurf.txt* Plugin for navigating buffers webbrowser style         *bufsurf*

CONTENTS                                                    *bufsurf-contents*

 1. Introduction                |bufsurf-introduction|
 2. Requirements                |bufsurf-requirements|
 3. Usage                       |bufsurf-usage|
 4. License                     |bufsurf-license|
 5. History                     |bufsurf-history|


INTRODUCTION                                            *bufsurf-introduction*

When editing multiple files oftentimes it would be nice to be able to go back
and forth between the last edited files, just like a web browser allows the
user to navigate web pages forward and backward in history. The standard
:bn(ext) and :bp(revious) Vim commands allow to switch between next and
previous buffers respectively, but they do no take the history of the last
used files into account. Instead, they use the order in which the files were
opened, which can cause confusion in case the user expects to navigate forward
and backwards in history.  For example, in case the user opened the files A,
B, and C in the order:

A, B, C

and the navigation history would be

A, B, C, B

then :bp(revious) in the last buffer (B) would open up buffer A, where C is
preferable. This buffer supplies the user with the commands :BufSurfForward
and :BufSurfBack to navigate buffers forwards and backwards according to the
navigation history.

The latest version of this plugin is available at:

  http://github.com/ton/vim-bufsurf

Bugs can be reported there as well.


REQUIREMENTS                                            *bufsurf-requirements*

The plug-in requires Vim compiled with Ruby support. You can check for Ruby
support by launching Vim with the --version switch:

  vim --version

If "+ruby" appears in the version information then your version of Vim has
Ruby support.

Another way to check is to simply try using the :ruby command from within Vim
itself:

  :ruby 1

If your Vim lacks support you'll see an error message like this:

  E319: Sorry, the command is not available in this version


USAGE                                                          *bufsurf-usage*

bufsurf allows the user to navigate between buffers in a window based on the
navigation history. The navigation history is maintained per window / tab.
You can navigate backwards in history by issuing the command:

  :BufSurfBack

Similarly, to navigate forward in history, issue the command:

  :BufSurfForward

No default keymappings are provided, but can easily be defined by the user.
For example, to map Control+I to :BufSurfBack, and Control+O to
:BufSurfForward, include the following lines in your Vim configuration:

  nmap <silent> <C-i> :BufSurfBack<CR>
  nmap <silent> <C-o> :BufSurfForward<CR>


LICENSE                                                      *bufsurf-license*

Copyright 2010 Ton van den Heuvel. All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
   and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.


HISTORY                                                      *bufsurf-history*

v0.1 (17 September 2010)

- initial public release

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
vim:tw=78:ft=help:
